Title:          Game Over
Authors:        Darren Hoyland
Date:           2007-07-10
Tags:           Grown-Up Stuff, Marjan, House Buying
HeaderImage:    
Category:       Blog
Publish:        True


I've just sent my solicitors the following email:

<em>Jenna/John,</em>

<em>Please inform the vendor that we are discontinuing the purchase of the  flat. Could you then leave it a couple of hours just in case he  miraculously protests, produces ID and promises to be a good seller from  now on. If we hear nothing, could you then return the money to my  parents bank account (Do you need this info or did you get it when it  was transferred to you?)</em>

<em>Thanks for all your help - even if the desired outcome was not reached,  I support your decision to try to make sure he was who he said he was. I  would rather be homeless than conned and homeless <span class="moz-smiley-s1"></span><span> :-) </span> It's just a shame  we've spent all that time and money on this (If only all legal firms  were no win, no fee).</em>

<em>Cheers,
Darren  </em>

If I'd (re)started this blog sooner, I could have given you a blow-by-blow account of everything slowly going wrong and listed the bizarre demands, ridiculous emails and nonsensical promises made by the seller, but I didn't so you'll just have to believeme when I say that he was a knob (or should that be nob?).

Hell, even my mum called him a twat. That was amusing, seeing as though the woman has barely uttered a swear word in the 26 years I've known her!

On the up side, I'll start making preparations to move in with Marj.

Oooh, that's a bit scary...

Uh-oh.

Argh! Sudden committmentaphobia anxiety attack!!!

........aaaaaaand, breathe.

Just keep breathing, Darren, and everything'll be fine.