Title:          It’s crazy but it just might work
Authors:        Darren Hoyland
Date:           1999-11-30
Tags:           If I was king
HeaderImage:    
Category:       Blog
Publish:        True


As promised in an earlier posting, this is a brief description of a way of how the world could be, if we tried hard enough:

Once posted a comment on Richard Dawkin's webforum - will humanity.... link... (the reason I mentioned the sub group was .... )
micro energy generation

rapid proto
INTRODUCTION:
So I've been thinking.....

I'm not trying to build a new society. For a start I haven't the space.

We can all sit in our rooms and dream of how much better the world would be if they were in charge - in fact I've given it a go (www.nationstates.net - although my nation has become a paradise, my economy is rubbish!). However, problems start to arise when you create a democracy and they don't do what you want them to do.

Although I'm laying out my vision of a future, I'm don't see the country I live in (Britain) as a bad place to live. ....But a brief look around other parts of the world shows us that are free and fair society is exclusive only to to those lucky enough to be born within it and that it can only exist at the expense of others.  We are exploiting poorer countries and this way of life is clearly unsustainable on a timescale longer than a couple of generations. ......goods...bads.........I'm not advocating any kind of revolution (not that I'm suggesting I could if I wanted to!), I'm merely trying to lay out my vision for the future and then try to find others of a similar persuasion. Together, maybe we can help steer our existing societies in the way we would like.

On the way, I may find that someone else has already done this. I hope they have. I wish to ally myself with those of a similar viewpoint. It's just that I haven't seen anything else out there... Well, I have, but not all together. For instance, I've come across Humanist organisations, open source advocates, liberal.........  , but never all in one site. I've read other manifestos where people have stated how they envision their personal ideal world, but that leaves no room for other people. And if there's one thing that makes a good society it's other people. ..................... but the difference (I think) with this approach is that I'm not trying to reinvent the wheel here. If others have come up with a similar idea, then great, let me know and we can join forces. This isn't a call for followers whos I can dictate, its a rally point for equals, a beacon to those out there who share my frustrations. I don't have the answers, but I can create a framework where we can state the problems and work out a way to solve them. Hopefully this place is one of many - that way, I have less work cut out for me!

Money, that's a biggy. Shouldn't be able to lend or borrow and while we're at it, you shouldn't inherit. Need to make your own...

--------
THIS SITE:
is malleable and subject to change
--------
INSPIRATION:

At risk of telling you something you already know ..... The internet is the first real shot at true democracy.......... will be seen as important as the printing press.......

The goal is to eliminate drugs. Now I'm not going to go off on one about the evils of drugs, mainly because I'm drinking a glass of wine whilst writing this, but what I'm aiming for is a society where drugs are redundant. Think about it, drugs are simply a social lubricant. They are a tool to break down the barriers that exist between individuals. They also move us into a state of euphoria, but we can do this to each other if we know how. Biologically speaking, seeing as though our brains are capable of doing this, we are capable of doing it ourselves. But our brains are wired this way for a reason. If we do things right, it rewards us. Drugs just bypass the process, like a child using a stool to reach the cookie jar. To break this barrier down.........

Transcendence - I've borrowed the phrase from mysticism......... education is the way............

The parasite - you can't blame them, we each have the ability to be a parasite - its part of who we are and in evolutionary terms how we got this far (see Dawkin's The Selfish Gene), so there's no way of removing that from our nature - well, there is, but we shouldn't because at some point in the future, if civilisation collapses, we may need it again! Instead, we should create a environment that is hostile to this behaviour and encourages altruism. There should be no place for this in this philosophical society. ................ However, this leaves us open to exploitation to others who have no such qualms about removing the parasite from their societies. Especially because, as it can't just spring up overnight, this "society" needs to coexist with other societies. It may be that we need an open nature to each  other, but closed borders to outsiders - This is just one of many problems that needs solving by minds greater than mine, or better still, by a group working together.

Inspired by the consensus of P F Hamilton's Night's Dawn trilogy (by no means original).....

--------------

Atheist,
Open,
Liberal
Shared Mind/Internet (synaptinet - the "synaptic" web(!)),
Humanist,
meditation/tai chi type spiritualism but not belief without questioning (embrace spiritualism without embracing mysticism)
scientific approach/the questioning mind
technological
sustainable/ecological
sexual freedom
human rights

religion - dont want to ban it, just want it to become redundant - eventually, people will see it for what it is and it will just fade away....

---------------
forum
essays - consensus (agree or disagree)
Newsletter (opinion of the founders)
Constitution (Qualifying criteria)

----------------

Once asked my friend Jacqui.eagle and condor

----------------
GROUPS WITH PARTIALLY SIMILAR AIMS:

http://www.humanism.org/participate.html or http://www.humanism.org.uk
wikipedia
GNU/Linux
did a search - comrades!!!

<a href="http://www.lifehack.org/articles/technology/open-source-life-how-the-open-movement-will-change-everything.html" class="moz-txt-link-freetext">http://www.lifehack.org/articles/technology/open-source-life-how-the-open-movement-will-change-everything.html</a>
while we're at it , i found this - i want one
http://www.openmoko.com/products-neo-base-00-stdkit.html