Title:          Why I’m not bothering with god-bothering
Authors:        Darren Hoyland
Date:           1999-11-30
Tags:           Religion, General Mutterings
HeaderImage:    
Category:       Blog
Publish:        True


I recently joined the Atheist and Rational Thinking society at uni.  I saw the stall and thought "finally!". Everyone likes to be a part of something and, by the number of people who joined, it seems that atheists are no exception. The difference, I reckon, is that we don't want to be a part of something that's clearly bollocks.

Marj says that I'm intolerant of religion, which is true, but does this void my <a href="http://www.autonomouse.com/2007/09/25/tree-hugging-bleeding-heart-liberal-goody-goodies-vs-the-world-catch-up-posting">previously proclaimed</a> liberal status? I don't think it does, simply because it is the enemy of everything liberalism stands for. I have no problem with people believing in whatever they want to believe. It's when they subject other people to those beliefs who are susceptible or who are too weak minded to  protect themselves, and when the encourage hatred to all others who don't agree with their belief. In other words, organised religion. Inside the mind of every theist out there who takes their gospel as, well, gospel, there's an unwavering belief that I deserve to be punished for all eternity for the crime of disagreeing with them. How can anyone then say that religion is anything but dangerous?

believe for

I like open minds

but an open mind is open to every possibility, and so shouldn't discount the null hypothesis.

Organised religion

because I want people to be free to be whatever they want to be

I'm not telling people what to think, I just want them to think in the first place. Those that don't and fall into the trap of religion and taken advantage of

and so is the enemy of liberalism, free thought and tolerance, which is how I can oppose it and retain my liberal nature.

don't ha

I'm not telling people what to think and

They are and this make them my enemy

The reason that you hear a lot more from theists (religious people) than atheists is because if you don't believe in a god, you don't tent to stand on the street ranting about it, or writing songs about it, or donating all of your money to the cause. All of the world's most successful religions give bonus points if you further "spread the word". Atheism, meanwhile, isn't a religion and so athesits have no affiliation with one another and hence had no organised response. Instead, you just kinda shake your head and don't interfere in other people's business. This low profile has meant that atheists have traditionally been under-counted.

Recently, things are begun to change. Richard Dawkins, et al, published a book called "The God Delusion" which, although saying nothing particularily new, has thrown atheism

been

more accessable

But its not all down to him - he was

the timing is right for this new wave of athesim to counter the rising threat of bullshit. Fundamentalism, spiritualism, Creationism in schools,

The recent realisation of Americans that terrorism isn't a good thing....

They all hate atheism for this very fact and special place reserved in hell

because its the group they fear the most - the only one that can beat them, and they know it.

doing it is for other people. I don't need any convincing, I'm doing this for the masses...

A good line from Richard Dawkins is that everyone is an atheist of some sort <span lang="EN-GB">with respect to most of the Gods (</span><span lang="EN-GB">Thor, </span><span lang="EN-GB">Aphrodite,</span><span lang="EN-GB"> Ra, etc) and mythical beings (</span><span lang="EN-GB">pixies, goblins, unicorns, mermaids, vampires, warewolves, etc)</span><span lang="EN-GB"> that have ever been invented and every member of a monotheistic religion is an atheist to every conception of God bar one. Some of us just go one God further.</span>

I'm an atheist probably for the same reason as most Christians are Christians, Muslims are Muslims and so on and so forth: I just want to help others see the light.

My girlfriend thinks that by joining, I further segregate myself, in effect she's saying that this tribalism keeps us all apart - the difference is that inside the mind of every theist out there who takes their gospel as, well, gospel, there's an unwavering belief that I deserve to be punished for all eternity for the crime of disagreeing with them. And they say religion does no harm?

The thing that annoys me is that its such an obvious tactic and I can't understand why anyone would fall or it. Think about it, if you were designing a religion, how do you keep the punters once they've signed up to your religion? Easy - its the traditional carrot and stick argument. You make sure they think something ultimately nasty will happen to them if they don't follow your religion, and make sure they think something ultimately wonderful will happen to them if they do.

But it is difficult to imagine that anyone had the forsight to design a religion to do this from scratch. Here's the best bit - they didn't need to: it evolved :-) I've always found one of the great ironies of the intelligent design movement to be that religion itself has evolved by a similar method to how we think (and they don't think) biological organisms evolved. But religion has been around for so long that it didn't even need anyone to plan it. It spreads from mind to mind, and with every copy, small errors are made, different perspectives lead to new takes on old ideas and a change is made. Most of these differences don't make sense to other people and so don't survive in the minds of others and die off as the followers lose faith, but those ideas that fit better remain and so religion evolves. Different strains emerge, and these start as cults and eventually become organised religions.

To put it another way, if a meme is a social gene, then religion is surely a social virus.
These are well meaning people, but these people need our protection. They shouldn't be exploited and put to work raising money for the church. They think its charity, but they are being exploited and their good intentions perverted. Its as if a load of people have been told they have a disease and the only cure is for them to take heroin. They are the trusting sort, which is no bad thing, and so take the heroin and then they're hooked. They have to pay for their 'cure' and they think they are doinga good deed by spreading this cure to others, but in reality, they are propogating an evil lie.

meanwhile the pope gets rich. The thing is that its now totally out of control. There's been so many popes now that they now actually belive its a cure as well. And the cyclic bullshit is propogated further...

dogma - no wiggle room. I think it's impossible to believe in any of the 'organised' religions literally and be a liberal.

Agnostics, I'm fine with. If we're all honest with ourselves, we're all agnostics. I can't prove that god doesn't exist really, but they can't prove he does. If they were all as faithful as they claim to be, why don't they all murder each other so they can go to heaven. Apart from the murderers, but then they'd be martyrs by risking going to hell for a heavenly cause, so everyone's happy. Or maybe they're all a little bit afraid of dying after all?

Agnostics who are agnostics  because they haven't really thought about it and theists who just make the annual prayer annoy me a little: I do think that you should take this thing seriously, maybe not life and death serious (or should that be after-life and after-death?), but it is too important a question to be left up to someone else to decide for you, but I suppose they're not really doing any harm.

But if you are a strict bible/qu'oran basher, then its.........

it is for this reason that I find it hard to be liberal and not an atheist, or at least agnostic....

At the end of the day, most people will happily ignore atheism, because they see it as nihilistic. What they don't see is that it is they who are making things worse by viewing the world through their rose-tinted specticles.

However, I don't see it like this. I see it as a reason for optimism. We're in charge of our own fate. We have this one life, so lets make it wonderful for everyone. Sounds like heaven to me.

----

* - They get a mention over the others only because those are the largest - I hate all religion equally.

----

Album listening to whilst blogging:

Deathcab For Cutie -  Plans