Title:          Save The World!!!
Authors:        Darren Hoyland
Date:           2007-08-03
Tags:           General Mutterings
HeaderImage:    
Category:       Blog
Publish:        True


August 2007 -WORK IN PROGRESS...

As promised to anyone who cares in a couple of <a href="http://www.autonomouse.com/2007/07/02/privacy/">earlier</a> <a href="http://www.autonomouse.com/2007/08/01/its-crazy-but-it-just-might-work/">postings</a>, this is a brief description of a way of how the world could be, if we tried hard enough:

INTRODUCTIONY BIT:
So I've been thinking.....

I genuinely believe that I've had it better than any other generation born before me, in any other country. Yep, I'm a llucky boy. But, it's not perfect - there's a long way to go. More importantly, I know for a fact that most people haven't had it as good as me. Well, I want to change that. Wouldn't the world be such a nicer place if we all lived in a place where you were free to say what you wanted, where nobody had to lie, where people didn't have to hide their desires? A tolerant, liberal, open, free, respectful society? I think so. So here's a few ideason what I think needs to be done to get there.

Now don't get me wrong, I'm not trying to build a new society. For a start I haven't the space.

We can all sit in our rooms and dream of how much better the world would be if they were in charge - in fact I've given it a go (<a href="www.nationstates.net">www.nationstates.net</a> - although my nation has become a paradise, my economy is rubbish!). However, problems start to arise when you create a democracy and they don't do what you want them to do.

Although I'm laying out my vision of a future, I'm don't see the country I live in (Britain) as a bad place to live. ....But a brief look around other parts of the world shows us that are free and fair society is exclusive only to to those lucky enough to be born within it and that it can only exist at the expense of others. We are exploiting poorer countries and this way of life is clearly unsustainable on a timescale longer than a couple of generations. ......goods...bads.........I'm not advocating any kind of revolution (not that I'm suggesting I could if I wanted to!), I'm merely trying to lay out my vision for the future and then try to find others of a similar persuasion. Together, maybe we can help steer our existing societies in the way we would like.

Finally, if something like this were ever to happen, it couldn't come about via a revolution - by its very nature, it cannot be forced upone those those do not accept it, and so it must be able to co-exist in the world today. To successfully compete with and sit happily alongside, or even be a sub-set of, capitalist societies and all the others.

On the way, I may find that someone else has already done this. I hope they have. I wish to ally myself with those of a similar viewpoint. It's just that I haven't seen anything else out there... Well, I have, but not all together. For instance, I've come across Humanist organisations, open source advocates, liberal......... , but never all in one site. I've read other manifestos where people have stated how they envision their personal ideal world, but that leaves no room for other people. And if there's one thing that makes a good society it's other people. ..................... but the difference (I think) with this approach is that I'm not trying to reinvent the wheel here. If others have come up with a similar idea, then great, let me know and we can join forces. This isn't a call for followers whos I can dictate, its a rally point for equals, a beacon to those out there who share my frustrations. I don't have the answers, but I can create a framework where we can state the problems and work out a way to solve them. Hopefully this place is one of many - that way, I have less work cut out for--------

WHAT'S UP WITH OUR CURRENT SOCIETY?:

Money, that's a biggy. Money makes money. If you have enough of it, you are rewarded for doing nothing. The rich get richer, the poor stay poor. We're straying into communism here, and cries of redistribute the wealth are a bit scary....

Shouldn't be able to lend or borrow and while we're at it, you shouldn't inherit. Need to make your own...

And then there's religion. Encourages belief in the superstitious, ....professes offering hope to the hopeless, but it's false hope. and I believe this does more harm than good.

To me, religion has always been like a cure for the problems with society and although it ticks some of the boxes, its not a particularily effective one. Unfortunately, once you start taking religion, it's addictive and it cannot be taken with any other cure. Reason and science may be a bitter pill sometimes, and its not a miracle cure, but it deals with most of the problems and leaves room for other cures where it cannot reach. Religion claims to be able to solve everything (when it actually works far less well than reason) and forbids all other 'cures'. And it has side effects. Apart from the obvious ones (i.e. suicide bombers (although this may be overhyped), banning the use of condoms thus propogating HIV, encoraging desperate ill people to abandon their current treatrment for 'alternatives', and all that), religion has turned those who use it into religion junkies and has left us with most of the original problems and a few more to boot!

--------

INSPIRATION:

At risk of telling you something you already know ..... The internet is the first real shot at true democracy.......... will be seen as important as the printing press.......

The goal is to eliminate drugs. Now I'm not going to go off on one about the evils of drugs, mainly because I'm drinking a glass of wine whilst writing this, but what I'm aiming for is a society where drugs are redundant. Think about it, drugs are simply a social lubricant. They are a tool to break down the barriers that exist between individuals. They also move us into a state of euphoria, but we can do this to each other if we know how. Biologically speaking, seeing as though our brains are capable of doing this, we are capable of doing it ourselves. But our brains are wired this way for a reason. If we do things right, it rewards us. Drugs just bypass the process, like a child using a stool to reach the cookie jar. To break this barrier down.........

Transcendence - I've borrowed the phrase from mysticism......... education is the way............

The parasite - you can't blame them, we each have the ability to be a parasite - its part of who we are and in evolutionary terms how we got this far (see Dawkin's The Selfish Gene), so there's no way of removing that from our nature - well, there is, but we shouldn't because at some point in the future, if civilisation collapses, we may need it again! Instead, we should create a environment that is hostile to this behaviour and encourages altruism. There should be no place for this in this philosophical society. ................ However, this leaves us open to exploitation to others who have no such qualms about removing the parasite from their societies. Especially because, as it can't just spring up overnight, this "society" needs to coexist with other societies. It may be that we need an open nature to each other, but closed borders to outsiders - This is just one of many problems that needs solving by minds greater than mine, or better still, by a group working together.

Inspired by the consensus of P F Hamilton's Night's Dawn trilogy (by no means original).....

--------------

AREN'T I FORCING MY BELIEFS ON OTHERS?

Well, yes and no. the idea is to "ut this out there"..... going for the 'field of dreams philosphy (cheesy I know...)

So here's a list of key words how I see the thing. They probably won't fit everyone's idea of this society, but they're all open for discussion:

* * * SECULAR * * *

Atheist,

Humanism

* * * OPEN/LIBERAL * * *

Sexual freedom -If you look at ancient Greek and Roman art, you might be slightly curious as to why they all seemed to be mildly pornographic. It's all orgies and bisexualism and tits and well, pretty much anything that you'd find on google images with the 'safe search' deactivated. I would hazard a guess that this is probably because they were always at it. Simple answer. I'm not sure if it was just the upper classes or whatever, but they didn't seem to have a problem with lustful over-indulgence. So why have we? We all fantasise about these kinda things. Why do we restrain ourselves, when our seemingly less enlightened ansestors didn't? what changed?

I suspect that it's just down to disease and knowing what causes it. This knowledge would've then been incorporated into religious texts so that it became 'immoral' to do what come naturally (if you'll pardom the expression). An interesting experiment would be to see once we get the cure for all these nasty sexually transmitted diseases to see if it becomes socially acceptable once again. Meanwhile, it makes me laugh to see the yanks pouring millions of dollars into these <a href="http://www.silverringthing.com/whatissrt.asp">ridiculous abstinence programmes </a>for teenagers only to see them fail miserably ("But Stacey, you <em>promised</em> to completely ignore 4 billion years worth of evolutionary programming to reproduce, manifesting itself as your basic human desires and you still had sex! Where's your will-power girl. Oh, you're pregnant and have syphillis now? It's yoYour own fault for sinning"). Morons.

<em>You should be free to do whatever you want to do as long as it doesn't hurt anyone</em>, surely? If you want to have a 12-some, why should you be shunned by society?

Actually, this raises an interesting point. In Britain today, if you stand up and announce to the world that you're gay, you've always felt that way, it's nothing that anyone can change but why should they because it's your right to be who you are and do what comes natural, you'll get a few raised eyebrows, but no one will think too much to it. You might even get a standing ovation and a few phone numbers in some bars, then again, you might get a good kicking in other bars. Either way, in this country in this day and age, you are fortunate enough to live in a place where it's not seen as immortal or wrong and so they're not going to arrest you or anything ('Course, I wouldn't try that in Iran any time soon).

If, however, you stand up and announce to the world that you're a paedo and you've always felt that way, it's nothing that anyone can change but why should they because it's your right to be who you are and do what comes natural, then you'll be lucky if the police get to you to arrest you before the lynch mob. The reason I mention this is because there's been a <a href="http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/england/kent/6928288.stm">big thing on the news </a>today about a guy who'd downloaded pictures nasty things being done to kids.

Now at risk of sounding like a bleeding heart liberal - it really is't something they can turn off. I mean, who WANTS to be a peado, or a rapist, or a daily mail reader? You can't help it, it's just how you feel. I'm sure there are all sorts of complex psychological reasons which cause it, not to mention the genetic factors that make people the way they are, but until we unreavel these, there's no way of shutting it off. Now I'm not going anywhere near justifying anything that those sicko's do, but the point is that there must be loads of people that have these thoughts but haven't acted upon them yet. It's not like everyone that fancies children will act upon those thoughts. One thing I'm certain of is that if we string up every person who confesses to have what the rest of society considers to be 'evil' urges, then there's not going to be a lot more that willingly come forward. Our job is not to get revenge for the crime after it has happened. It should be to prevent the crime from occurring in the first place and the best way to do that is to create a society where people can embrace what they are completely and allow people to be open about their innermost desires. Then we can make some progress - maybe offer them some kind of alternative or something? I don't know, but we can send in the psychologists and at least and there'll be a lot less victims in this world. Surely that's worth opening up for?

In this society, you should first of all come to terms with what you are. Embrace your true self and embrace others in the same way - warts and all. In my opinion, <em>hiding such things from yourself  and everyone else will only lead to it manifesting itself by bubbling to the surface in an uncontrollable fashion, with unfortunate consequences for the weakest around you.</em>
open in another sense - open like open source:Using Internet (synaptinet - the "synaptic" web(!)) for referendums... - leading to consensus/group mind...

This raises the problem of....in a democracy, people ofter make thew 'wrong' decision -

A friend of mine has the following snobbish, but undeniably accurate quote on his  facebook page: "Think of how stupid the average person is, and realise half of them are stupider than that" - George Carlin. We need to be sure that those who vote are not easily swayed by those in a position of influence. How? We need to make sure everyone is informed before they can vote on matters -not by restricting who can vote, but by educating everyone to a high level as stabdard.

dump party system

* * *  * * *

SPIRITUALISM (for want of a better word)
meditation/tai chi type spiritualism but not belief without questioning (embrace spiritualism without embracing mysticism)
scientific approach/the questioning mind

TECHNOLOGICAL/SCIENTIFIC
technological

ENVIRONMENTAL (control, but co-operate with natural order)

sustainable/ecological

human rights

religion - dont want to ban it, just want it to become redundant - eventually, people will see it for what it is and it will just fade away....

--------------
consensus (agree or disagree)
Constitution = Qualifying criteria

Jacqui's eagle and condor thingymabob???

----------------
GROUPS WITH PARTIALLY SIMILAR AIMS:

http://www.humanism.org/participate.html or http://www.humanism.org.uk
wikipedia
GNU/Linux
did a search - comrades at last!!!<a href="http://www.lifehack.org/articles/technology/open-source-life-how-the-open-movement-will-change-everything.html" class="moz-txt-link-freetext"> http://www.lifehack.org/articles/technology/open-source-life-how-the-open-movement-will-change-everything.html</a>
while we're at it , i found this - i want one :-)
http://www.openmoko.com/products-neo-base-00-stdkit.html

To include later on:

Once posted a comment on Richard Dawkin's webforum - will humanity.... link... (the reason I mentioned the sub group was .... )
micro energy generation

rapid proto