Title:          Open House
Authors:        Darren Hoyland
Date:           1999-11-30
Tags:           General Mutterings
HeaderImage:    
Category:       Blog
Publish:        True


A membership club taking the best bits from the pub, 'Starbucks', the internet café, the church, the gym and the community centre and leaving the rest out.
<p style="margin-bottom: 0cm">
</p><p style="margin-bottom: 0cm">Its aim to apply open source principals to the real world to foster local community spirit that may otherwise be lacking (in a city centre for example). It will be geared towards people who want to have a more constructive role in society and studenty-types and will be sold as a place where you could come along to on your own with no qualms. Basically, it will be building a micro-society within the existing society.</p>

<p style="margin-bottom: 0cm">
</p><p style="margin-bottom: 0cm">It will have a physical presence – i.e. A pub/café style environment with lots of sofas and computers and also board-games and a mini-library, and a web-presence – i.e. Taking advantage of the current social networking trend (possibly by using existing site, e.g. By building an application for Facebook) but tied down to the physical establishment.</p>

<p style="margin-bottom: 0cm">
</p><p style="margin-bottom: 0cm">The physical establishment will consist of a social area, much like a pub or 'Starbucks' style café  with tables with chess-board table-tops and retro arcade tables. There will be other bar games also. Although this area purposely retains many elements of a typical English pub, it will not be geared towards selling alcohol – it just happens to sell alcohol along with other beverages and food. Prices will be close to cost with money being generated by a monthly membership subscription. There will be a gym area and so people who pay a monthly subscription to the gym (although hardly use it) will instead join up to this and still get the satisfaction that they are doing something good for themselves! There will be a learning area, where physical exercise and educational classes will be taught, and where reading groups or lectures are held. This could double up as a cinema some nights. Members will be encouraged to arrange these talks themselves. The games and computing area will have internet enabled PCs running linux, gaming PCs running windows and games consoles (PS3s, Xbox 360s, etc)  for entertainment, and it will also hold classes on computer basics and use of open-source software, etc. Outside will be a community maintained garden and communal area with recycling facilities.</p>

<p style="margin-bottom: 0cm">
</p><p style="margin-bottom: 0cm">The virtual establishment will be a community-driven social networking site where members are encourage to interact. It will feature a profiles page of all members/partners (where they may be contacted), a trading post (more trustworthy than, say, Ebay because it is not anonymous, and membership may be revoked if they cheat people), a forum with emphasis on forming local grass-roots action groups, wikis, a constitution, and the 'consensus' –  Consensus will be the on-line debate and decision forum where members take part in referenda about all aspects of running the community. It is here that judgements are made regarding, for example, whether to grant membership to more individuals, which games to buy, which drinks to get in at the bar and revoking memberships. Partners will have extra weight in consensus and can decide opening hours or the bar prices, etc.</p>

<p style="margin-bottom: 0cm">
</p><p style="margin-bottom: 0cm">The establishment and community of members in general will aim to inspire free, fair, secular and ethical principals, with its ethos rooted in democracy, freedom, openness, technology, equality, environmentalism and encourages intellectual pursuits (debate, philosophy, politics, etc) . This ethos is open to alteration as with everything else via the consensus, but by initially marketing the community as having this ethos, hopefully it will only attract those of a similar persuasion thus enabling the ethos the remain unchallenged.</p>

<p style="margin-bottom: 0cm">
</p><p style="margin-bottom: 0cm">The idea is that people will care about the place more than other places because they will own it and everyday make decisions on-line. Once one is sold off to its members, others will be created. Eventually, there will be enough so that each is like a fraternity and interaction between the different establishments will be encouraged.</p>

<p style="margin-bottom: 0cm">
</p><p style="margin-bottom: 0cm">Funding</p>

<ul>
	<li>
<p style="margin-bottom: 0cm" lang="en-GB"><font color="#000000"></font><font size="3">Bank 	loan?</font></p>
</li>
	<li>
<p style="margin-bottom: 0cm" lang="en-GB"><font color="#000000"></font><font size="3">Other 	co-operatives?</font></p>
</li>
	<li>
<p style="margin-bottom: 0cm" lang="en-GB"><font color="#000000"></font><font size="3">Community 	donations/contribution?</font></p>
</li>
</ul>
<ul>
	<li>
<p style="margin-bottom: 0cm" lang="en-GB"><font color="#000000"></font><font size="3">Open-source 	projects (ask Mark Shuttleworth nicely?)?</font></p>
</li>
	<li>
<p style="margin-bottom: 0cm" lang="en-GB"><font color="#000000"></font><font size="3">Investors 	</font></p>
</li>
</ul>
<p style="margin-bottom: 0cm">
</p><p style="margin-bottom: 0cm">How money will be made</p>

<ul>
	<li>
<p style="margin-bottom: 0cm" lang="en-GB"><font color="#000000"></font><font size="3">The 	monthly membership subscription </font></p>
</li>
	<li>
<p style="margin-bottom: 0cm" lang="en-GB"><font color="#000000"></font><font size="3">Selling 	off the whole at an inflated price, by selling it as small shares 	like a co-operative to the people who use the place (These partners 	will pay a reduced membership fee and have further discounts maybe, 	but most importantly, their decisions will carry more weight in the 	referenda and they will receive dividends like from any 	co-operative). </font></p>
</li>
	<li>
<p style="margin-bottom: 0cm" lang="en-GB"><font color="#000000"></font><font size="3">Advertising 	(Online to members and posters in the pub, etc)</font></p>
</li>
	<li>
<p style="margin-bottom: 0cm" lang="en-GB"><font color="#000000"></font><font size="3">A 	little bit from selling drinks and food, but not much</font></p>
</li>
</ul>